>> Will Sentance: Now we move on to
a cool part of functional programming,
which maybe some of you thought the
functional programming talk I gave here.
But let's start off with why
do we even have functions?
Why do we even have them?
Let's see why.
Let's create a function 10 squared,
takes no input, returns 10 by 10, and for
once I want the exact
wordings of these functions.
So, Ryan,
what's the exact wording of this function?
Function 10 squared take no input returns,
what'll be the exact wording Ryan, here?
We're gonna use the traditional style.
By the way, I should say, we're gonna
see an ever more popular style of
declaring and saving functions
in a moment in a little bit.
But for now, let's use the traditional
function declaration style.
How do I declare?
How do I save a function 10 square?
What keyword do I tell the computer,
I'm gonna save a function?
>> Speaker 2: Function?
>> Will Sentance: Function, pretty good,
excellent.
There it is, function.
What should I call it?
>> Speaker 2: 10 squared?
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
does it take any inputs?
>> Speaker 2: Does not.
>> Will Sentance: No,
so empty parenthesis.
And then in the body of the function Ryan,
we've got?
>> Speaker 2: Returns 10 times 10.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, brilliant, Ryan.
Ryan is disappointed with this function
I can tell already by his tone of voice.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: Your tone of voice Ryan,
I don't blame you.
We call it, we get what Ryan?
It's gonna evaluate to what everybody?
>> Speaker 3: 100.
>> Will Sentance: 100.
Great, but do we write this function?
>> Speaker 3: No.
[LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: I love this function,
this is a terrible function.
What about 9 squared?
Ethan, what would I do to change this or
no?
Can't edit functions once I've saved them.
Wanna build 9 squared.
Off I go.
What would I write, Ethan?
>> Speaker 2: Declare a function,
9 squared.
>> Will Sentance: Do I have to write,
so you suffer with me, and
we realize why we have functions.
I'm gonna write it out again, yet okay.
No.
Go ahead, Ethan.
This is gonna be more wiping
down the board, you know that?
>> Speaker 2: Returns 9 times 9.
>> Will Sentance: Actually,
the fact it takes so
long to wipe the board down is something
of a metaphor for our premise.
That's equivalent to editing and
writing code, it's very appropriate.
Yeah, do we write this function, Ethan?
No.
No,
we don't wanna rewrite stuff like this.
But what about, there you go, 9 squared?
I'll confirm my little friendly,
look at that little guy.
So he's so perturbed, there so perturbed.
Who knows?
There perturbed, perturbed.
Add an 8 squared function,
125 squared function people.
What principle, everybody,
are we breaking?
Does everyone know?
Yeah, DRY.
Don't repeat yourself, right?
This is a fundamental principle in
programming, write as little as possible.
And not just from a premise
of words per hour per dollar.
But, in a deeper sense, we don't wanna
be rewriting code when we don't have to.
Because it gets much, much harder to track
and maintain what we're doing if we do so.
We're breaking our principal DRY,
Don't Repeat Yourself.
So, what could we do here, instead?
Turning to, Peter,
what could we do here, instead,
besides writing out a function 9 squared?
A function 8 squared?
What is the thing that's the same,
each time?
So, what could we do,
instead, here, Peter?
>> Speaker 2: The squaring is the same.
So, we could generalize the input.
>> Will Sentance: Beautiful, fantastic,
we can generalize the function
to make it more reusable.
We could build a function like squared,
no, we save the code of it, but
we leave a little bit of that code TBD.
Specifically, we leave exactly what data,
what thing we're gonna multiply by itself.
Cuz they're all the same.
9 by 9.
10 by 10.
The odd number multiplied by itself.
If instead I can leave the thing I'm gonna
to multiply blank until I run the code,
I write the code once of
multiplying them by itself.
And then run it and dynamically at
the moment of running the function,
turn it into 10 by 10.
Turn it into 9 by 9.
Turn it into 8 by 8.
Literally, the 10 is gonna fly and
replace num, I'm gonna get 10 by 10.
The 8 is gonna fly, I'm gonna get 8 by 8.
This is our premise or
co premise of functions.
Making code that we can write once and
then reuse again and
again with different values,
different data.
That is what a parameter is for.
But wait folk, what if, here we go.
Parameters, placeholders, meaning we
don't need to decide what data to run out
functionality on until
we run the function.
Folk, what if it weren't just the data
that we could leave TBD in our function?
What if it weren't just leaving a blank to
fill in with numbers or strings or rate?
What if we could also leave
a little bit of our code, TBD?
Leave a little bit of our code only
to be determined once we actually run
the function?
Leave a little bit of our
functionality to be left blank?
And when we run the function,
fill that functionality in?
That would make our functions
super reusable, super general.
And that's exactly what higher
order functions are gonna do.
We may not want to decide exactly
what some of our functionality is,
until we run our function.